>> Kyle: Before we talk about service
workers, some of you have never actually
written a web worker, which was
the precursor to service workers.
Service workers are a special
kind of web worker
that has a very specific kind
of purpose in the web stack.
But we're gonna start by looking at web
workers and then we'll circle back and
look specifically at service workers.
So if you are in your
worker-exercise directory,
you should be able to start up
the server that we're gonna
be working on by typing node server.js.
And then when you hit Enter,
it should tell you server started on.
And 8049 is the port that we're
gonna be using for today's exercise.
If you get any error that pops
up about a missing dependency,
you should have, from the distribution,
any modules that you needed.
But if you need to, you could say npm
install which will install any of
the dependencies if they happen
not to be in your distribution.
>> Kyle: Sometimes NPM can be very slow,
and
then you should be able to issue
the node server.js to start the server.
>> Kyle: And you notice that
we're just gonna leave it on.
With that started, we're gonna go over to
our browser and type in localhost:8049.
And that's gonna load up this basic
little website that I've put together.
Now this website doesn't do anything yet,
but
that's what we're gonna be
doing a little bit together.
And I used one of the most
canonical examples for web workers,
which is you want your web worker
to do some heavy-lifting work.
For example,
recursively calculating Fibonacci numbers.
Just so we're entirely clear on this,
calculating Fibonacci numbers,
not something you're ever gonna
do on a real website, okay?
I totally get that.
But what we wanted to do was,
in a very simple way, illustrate the idea
that you might have some heavy-lifting
work to do in the background.
That is the use case for
web workers is when there's gonna be
a bunch of processing-intensive stuff.
So what is a web worker?
It is a JavaScript file that runs on a
separate thread from the web page thread.
So you have your JavaScript
that loads into your web page.
And then you can have
a separate JavaScript file
which acts as a separate program,
running in a background thread.
Running independently of the web page,
which means if it's running and running
and running, it doesn't affect any of
the behavior while you're on the web page.
If you ran a bunch of heavy processing
in the code that was on your web page.
You know that you're not gonna be able to
scroll around and click on buttons while
JavaScript's running because
of that thread being tied up.
So the key ideas, if I have some
heavy-lifting processing work to
do and I need to do it front end,
then I can offload it to a web worker.
Some things to be aware of.
All the web browser guarantees is
that if you spin up a web worker,
it will be on a different
thread from the main page.
If you spin up multiple workers,
in general they will often
have separate threads.
But there is no actual guarantee that
every single thread that you make will
have a completely separate thread.
Because if that was a guarantee,
then this would be very easy to
denial of service somebody's browser,
somebody's device.
So the only guarantee is that
you can spin off at least
one extra thread to handle
web worker work, okay?
There are a variety of
quirks around web workers.
Where in some browsers and configurations,
a worker can spin off another worker
which is called a child worker.
And in some configurations,
that doesn't work.
But the page can spin
up multiple workers and
then try to ferry
communications between them.
There are specialized web workers.
For example,
if you spin up a worker for a web page,
that's called a dedicated worker,
which means it belongs to that web page.
And when you close that tab,
that worker is immediately killed.
And then there's another kind of worker,
and
if you had multiple tabs
of the same site open.
You'd get multiple dedicated workers,
each one tied to that page.
But then there's another way
of creating a worker, and
again not all browsers and
configurations handle this often.
When we're talking about limitations,
mobile devices will limit some of this
stuff more than a desktop typically will.
But there's a type of worker
called a shared worker,
which is if you had multiple tabs.
If you had a web app or
site where it was common for your users to
have multiple tabs of your site open,
maybe a shopping site or something.
You can have a shared worker
which is running once.
And it's able to communicate with
each instance of all the open pages.
And it lives as long as
there's one open tab.
So somebody could have five tabs open.
Closed four of them and
that shared worker's still running.
Open another tab, now it's able
to talk to both of those tabs.
And there's some tricks you can do where
you could have one page talk to another
page through that worker.
There's other ways to do that
with postMessage as well, but
you can keep two pages in sync.
So if somebody types in something over
here, or they add it to their cart on this
page, now all of a sudden the cart
icon over here is synchronized.
So you can do some of those things.
But just be aware shared workers are not
absolutely guaranteed to work
everywhere sort of thing.
You're gonna need to gracefully
handle if that's not,
don't build your main functionality on it.
But it's a nice graceful,
I mean, progressive enhancement,
if you will, for the page.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Is there a fallback from
a shared worker to a dedicated worker
if the shared worker's not available?
Or is that not something you could do?
>> Kyle: There's not a fallback from
the perspective where the browser
automatically falls back.
You can feature detect that your
shared worker is unavailable or
it doesn't start and then start
a worker instead of a shared worker.
The one we're gonna do here is just
gonna be a regular dedicated worker.
And we'll see how to do
that in just a moment.
But I've used shared workers maybe once or
twice in my career.
It's not something I use a lot.
I've used dedicated
workers a number of times.
So they're more useful.
That's why shared workers are maybe
less common for you to see.
I think there was at least one
browser that didn't implement them for
the longest time, I forget.
It might have been Firefox, it might
have been Microsoft IE or something.
But anyway, shared workers weren't
guaranteed cross browser for a long time.
I don't think shared workers
work on mobile devices.
So just be aware that if you're gonna
build it with the shared thing in mind,
you need to handle the case
where that doesn't work.
Or just not doing the work or
doing some other kinda workaround.
Anyway, so web workers are a way
to run some code somewhere else
other than what's happening
in the tab at this moment.
In all of those cases that we've
talked about, they belong to the tab.
And as soon as the tab goes away, or
all the tabs that are sharing it go away,
that thing dies.
What is gonna be unique and different
when we get into shared worker, I mean,
into service workers is
that service workers
survive in the background
beyond the tab going away.
Beyond the tab being closed, or beyond
somebody navigating away to another page.
Now before that terrifies you and
you think my god.
Somebody's gonna run this code
in the background forever and
it's gonna kill my site or
it's gonna spy on me or whatever.
There's a ton of security model involved
where just because it's running in
the background doesn't mean
that it's spying on you.
It can still only communicate with
the pages that it was spun up from.
So you don't have to worry about that.
But also, the browser manages
the life cycle of that.
And so it may live for 5 or 10 or
15 seconds in the background
while it's doing some stuff.
And then once it's idle,
it'll be shut down.
It could potentially spin back up.
And we'll talk about advanced use cases
where a service worker can be spun
up in the background,
even when your page isn't open.
But again, it would only live for a matter
of a few seconds and then go away.
So the browser manages all that stuff for
you.
But the point is you basically have this
worker that is almost like a zombie.
It's living outside of your tab.
And that's a special power that
normal workers don't have, okay?
So let's get into how we would write and
build a web worker.
What we're gonna eventually be able to do
is click this button which will fire off
a web worker that starts generating
Fibonacci numbers recursively in
the background.
I intentionally did not do
optimized Fibonacci generation,
cuz we're intentionally trying to create a
bunch of processing work that goes slower,
and slower, and slower.
Yes, I know there are much better ways
of doing Fibonacci generation, okay?
But you'll see that when we
spin it up on my machine.
It's able to get up to
the Fibonacci of 42 or
43 before it's taking way too
long to generate the next number.
Anyway, so we're just gonna
spin up a web worker, fire it,
tell it to just keep generating Fibonacci
numbers and sending them to the page.
And then if we click Stop,
it's gonna kill the web worker.
Now, the reason why we need
to kill the web worker
is because the communication that
happens between the page and
a web worker is based upon
asynchronous eventing.
If you've worked with Ajax events
like fetch, if you've done things
like postMessage before,
postMessage is how we communicate.
It's an asynchronous event.
But an asynchronous event cannot be
processed if some code is already running.
So if we have some code running that's
churning for seconds or minutes on in
trying to generate a Fibonacci number,
and we try to send it a message.
That message is gonna just sit there,
waiting for somebody to pick it up.
So we can't rely upon sending a message
to a worker that is busy to tell it hey,
stop doing what you're doing.
So the better way of telling it to [LAUGH]
stop doing what it's doing is to terminate
the web worker.
So that'll be our general strategy.